### hash
> Thanks to the global privatized passive surveillance program (GPPSP), you have been able to purchase, steal or otherwise acquire a copy of petabytes of databases and emails that have been sent over the wire in plain text.
>
> Ironically, you've forgotten your own password. Fortunately, you found a hash of it in one of the aforementioned databases, hashed with a broken algorithm. You remember that your password is 8 characters long and random.
>
> Crack the hash and submit the password as the key.
>
> Password hash: 006ea4e7d5209aadb6291899381bbca8 

**Tools used**: `gcc`; pen and paper

This question was very interesting. We were given some C++ source code which was a broken hashing function.

Basically, this is what the hashing function did:

1. Cut the input in to 16-character (aka byte) blocks, zero-padded.
2. Each set of 4 characters was converted into a 'word' using some strange `union` hacks.
3. The 4 words were expanded to 8 words.
4. The 8 words were then compressed into 4 words using xors.
5. It was then digested into hex.

The real vulnerability in this function was points 3 and 4. After many pages and several pens, @cyphar managed to find exactly what was happening in the hashing function:

Example 8-character password block:
```
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|a|b|c|d|e|f|g|h| | | | | | | | |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
```

Broken into words:
```
+----+----+----+----+
|abcd|efgh|    |    |
+----+----+----+----+

Let x = "abcd" as a word
Let y = "efgh" as a word
```

The algorithm rotates numbers several times. This is where the lowest-significant bit becomes the most significant, and the rest is shifted down.
```
x'  = single rotated number
x'' = double rotated number
```

The algorithm then expands the array into an 8-block array. It does this by rotating and xoring the original values, like so:
```
+-+-+-+-+-----+-----+-----------+-----------+
|a|b|c|d|a'^c'|b'^d'|c'^(a'^c')'|d'^(b'^d')'|
+-+-+-+-+-----+-----+-----------+-----------+
```

The problem with this system is that c and d are full of 0s if the input was <= 8 chars (like the question states). The blocks then look like this:

```
+-+-+-+-+--+--+---+---+
|a|b| | |a'|b'|a''|b''|
+-+-+-+-+--+--+---+---+
```

Whoops.

The hashing then compresses the above 8-word block into a 4-word block. This is the basis of most hashing algorithms, but there is a flaw which was compounded by the above flaw.
The actual compressing was essentially just an xor of the above values. The second and fourth words of the current hash block are xored with the current word being inserted.

Hashing, in steps:
```
  +--------+--------+-----+-----+
1 |   x    |        |     |     |
2 |   y    |   x    |     |     |
3 |   x    |   y    |  x  |     |
4 |   y    |   x    |  y  |  x  |
5 |   x'   |   y    |  x  |  y  |
6 |   y'   |   x'   |  y' |  x' |
7 |x^x'^x''|   y'   |  x' |  y' |
8 |y^y'^y''|x^x'^x''|  y' |  x' |
  +--------+--------+-----+-----+
```

The compression is broken in steps 5 and 6. Because of the zero-padding, steps 3 and 4 just push the same words as steps 1 and 2. This results in two of the values being xored becoming identical in steps 5 and 6, producing a rotated value (with no effective xor). All we now needed was to create a program to reverse rotate the last two octets of the hash, and we were done.

@cyphar's final solution is in `unhash.c`.
